
Question- What is string in js?
Answer- A JavaScript string stores a series of characters like "John Doe". A string can be any text inside double
or single quotes.




Question- What is array in js?
Answer- An array is a special variable, which can hold more than one value may be of different datatype.




Question- What is object in js?
Answer- An object is a collection of properties, and a property is an association between a name (or key) and 
a value.




Question- What are classes and objects in js?
Answer- Class is a blueprint that defines some properties and behaviors. An object is an instance of a class 
that has those properties and behaviours attached. A class is not allocated memory when it is defined. An object 
is allocated memory when it is created.




Question- What is this keyword?
Answer- “This” keyword refers to an object that is executing the current piece of code. It references the object 
that is executing the current function.




Question- What is static function?
Answer- Static class methods are defined on the class itself. You cannot call a static method on an object, only 
on an class.




Question- What is JSON?
Answer- JSON stands for JavaScript Object Notation. JSON is a text format for storing and transporting data.
It is basically used to convert objects to strings or strings to objects.




Question- Why JSON does not support functions?
Answer- JSON doesn't support functions because functions are executable code, and JSON's purpose is to describe 
data, not behavior. Functions are a part of the logic or behavior of a program and are not inherently representable
in a data-interchange format like JSON.




Question- What is shallow copy and deep copy?
Answer- Shallow Copy stores the references of objects to the original memory address. Deep copy stores copies of 
the object's value. Shallow Copy reflects changes made to the new/copied object in the original object. Deep copy 
doesn't reflect changes made to the new/copied object in the original object.