
Question- What is tailwind css?
Answer- Tailwind CSS is a utility-first CSS framework that provides a set of pre-designed utility classes to help 
you build modern and responsive user interfaces. It's designed to be highly customizable and flexible, allowing 
developers to quickly create styles without having to write custom CSS.





Question- What is the difference between strongly typed and weakly typed language?
Answer- In a strongly typed language, the data type of a variable is enforced at compile-time. In a weakly typed 
language, the data type of a variable is not strictly enforced, and type conversions are often implicit.
 



Question- What is typescript?
Answer- TypeScript is a programming language developed and maintained by Microsoft. It is a strict syntactical 
uperset of JavaScript.




Question- How does a typescript code run?
Answer- Typescript code never runs in your browser. Your browser can only understand javascript. 
1. Javascript is the runtime language (the thing that actually runs in your browser/nodejs runtime).
2. Typescript is something that compiles down to javascript.
3. When typescript is compiled down to javascript, you get type checking (similar to C++). If there is an error, the 
   conversion to Javascript fails. 




Question- What are the important option in tsconfig file?
Answer- The important option in tsconfig file are-
1. target- The target option in a tsconfig.json file specifies the ECMAScript target version to which the TypeScript 
   compiler will compile the TypeScript code.
2. rootDir- Where should the compiler look for .ts files.
3. outDir- Where should the compiler look for split out the .js files.    
4. removeComments- Weather or not to include comments in the final js file.




Question- What is interfaces in typescript?
Ansswer- In TypeScript, an interface defines the structure of object by specifying the types of its properties(key).




Question- What is type in typescript?
Answer- 'type' is often more flexible than interface and can be used in more scenarios. It can represent any type, 
including primitive types, union types, intersection types, and even mapped types.




Question- What is enums in typescript?
Answer- Enums (short for enumerations) in TypeScript are a feature that allows you to define a set of named 
constants. The concept behind an enumeration is to create a human-readable way to represent a set of constant values, 
which might otherwise be represented as numbers or strings.




Question- What are generics?
Answer- Generics in TypeScript let you write code that can be used with different types. Instead of specifying the 
type directly, you use a placeholder called a "type parameter." It's like a box that can hold any type, and you
decide what type it should hold when you use the code.