
Question- What is JavaScript?
Answer- JavaScript is a lightweight, cross-platform, single-threaded, and interpreted programming 
language. It is also known as the scripting language for webpages. It is well-known for the development of 
web pages, and many non-browser environments also use it.




Question- Why languages?
Answer- Programming languages are used in web development because they enable humans to communicate 
instructions to computers in a readable format.




Question- Why javascript is better than other language?
Answer- It is cross-platform compatible and is supported by all major web browsers. Both the front-end and 
the back-end of websites may be developed using JavaScript, which, when done right, captures seamless 
communication between the client and the server.




Question- What is static and dynamic typed language?
Answer- Static typed languages- Type checking occurs during compilation, before the code is executed. This means 
that the code will not be compiled until all errors are fixed. Examples of statically typed languages include Java, 
C++, and C#.

Dynamic typed languages- Type checking occurs during runtime, while the code is being executed. This means that 
dynamically typed languages can compile even if they contain errors. Examples of dynamically typed languages include 
Python, Ruby, and JavaScript.




Question- Why javascript is a dynamic language?
Answer- Javascript is a dynamic typed language. When you declare a variable, you do not need to specify 
what type this variable is. 




Question- Explain single threaded nature of javascript?
Answer- Javascript is a single threaded language. This means it has one call stack and one memory heap. 
As expected, it executes code in order and must finish executing a piece code before moving onto the next.




Question- What is compile-time and run-time?
Answer- Compile-time refers to the phase during which a program is translated from the source code into 
machine code or an intermediate code by a compiler. Whereas run-time, or execution time, is the period when 
a program is actually running and performing its tasks on a computer.




Question- What is difference between interpreted languages and compiled languages?
Answer- Compiled languages-
1. First need to compile, then need to run.
2. Usually don't compile, if there is an error in the code.
3. Eg- C, C++, Java etc.

Interpreted languages-
1. Usually go line by line.
2. Can run partially if error comes later.
3. Eg- Javascript, Python etc.




Question- What is the difference between interpreter and compiler?
Answer- A compiler translates code from a high-level programming language into machine code before the program runs.
Produces a complete executable file that can run independently. An interpreter translates code written in a 
high-level programming language into machine code line-by-line as the code runs. No separate executable file is 
created.




Question- What are variables in javascript?
Answer- A JavaScript variable is simply a name of storage location. Three ways to create variables- let, var 
and const.




Question- What are datatypes in javascript?
Answer- Datatypes describe the type of data that variables can store. Datatypes in javascript are integer, string,
big int, boolean, null, undefined, object and symbol.